Add parse_ion processor (#6761)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-ion.md

---
layout: default
title: parse_ion 
parent: Processors
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 79
---

# parse_ion

> The `parse_ion` processor parses data which is formatted as [Amazon Ion](https://amazon-ion.github.io/ion-docs/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `parse_ion` processor parses [Amazon Ion](https://amazon-ion.github.io/ion-docs/) data.
```

## Configuration

You can configure the `parse_ion` processor with the following options.

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | 

> | `source` | No | String | The field in the `event` that will be parsed. Default value is `message`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `source` | No | String | The field in the `event` that is parsed. Default value is `message`. |
```

| `destination` | No | String | The destination field of the parsed JSON. Defaults to the root of the `event`. Cannot be `""`, `/`, or any white-space-only `string` because these are not valid `event` fields. |

> | `pointer` | No | String | A JSON pointer to the field to be parsed. There is no `pointer` by default, meaning the entire `source` is parsed. The `pointer` can access JSON array indexes as well. If the JSON pointer is invalid then the entire `source` data is parsed into the outgoing `event`. If the key that is pointed to already exists in the `event` and the `destination` is the root, then the pointer uses the entire path of the key. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `pointer` | No | String | A JSON pointer to the field to be parsed. There is no `pointer` by default, meaning that the entire `source` is parsed. The `pointer` can access JSON array indexes as well. If the JSON pointer is invalid, then the entire `source` data is parsed into the outgoing `event`. If the key that is pointed to already exists in the `event` and the `destination` is the root, then the pointer uses the entire path of the key. |
```

> | `pointer` | No | String | A JSON pointer to the field to be parsed. There is no `pointer` by default, meaning the entire `source` is parsed. The `pointer` can access JSON array indexes as well. If the JSON pointer is invalid then the entire `source` data is parsed into the outgoing `event`. If the key that is pointed to already exists in the `event` and the `destination` is the root, then the pointer uses the entire path of the key. |

Reviewer 2: "A JSON pointer specifying the path to the field to be parsed"?

> | `tags_on_failure` | No | String | A list of strings which specify the tags to be set in the event when the processors fails or unknown exception occurs while parsing. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `tags_on_failure` | No | String | A list of strings that specify the tags to be set in the event that the processors fails or an unknown exception occurs while parsing. 
```

## Usage

> The following examples show how to use `parse_ion` processor in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show how to use the `parse_ion` processor in your pipeline.
```

### Example: Minimum configuration

The following example shows the minimum configuration for the `parse_ion` processor:

```yaml
parse-json-pipeline:
  source:
    stdin:
  processor:
    - parse_json:
        source: "my_ion"
  sink:
    - stdout:
```
{% include copy.html %}

When the input event contains the following data:

```
{"my_ion": "{ion_value1: \"hello\", ion_value2: \"world\"}"}
```

> The processor will parse the event into the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The processor parses the event into the following output:
```

---
layout: default
title: parse_ion 
parent: Processors
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 79
---

# parse_ion

> The `parse_ion` processor takes any nested fields inside an event and parses them into Ion data.

Reviewer 3: It is parse the data which is already in Ion format.

```suggestion
The `parse_ion` processor parses data which is formatted as [Amazon Ion](https://amazon-ion.github.io/ion-docs/).
```

| `destination` | No | String | The destination field of the parsed JSON. Defaults to the root of the `event`. Cannot be `""`, `/`, or any white-space-only `string` because these are not valid `event` fields. |
| `pointer` | No | String | A JSON pointer to the field to be parsed. There is no `pointer` by default, meaning the entire `source` is parsed. The `pointer` can access JSON array indexes as well. If the JSON pointer is invalid then the entire `source` data is parsed into the outgoing `event`. If the key that is pointed to already exists in the `event` and the `destination` is the root, then the pointer uses the entire path of the key. |
| `tags_on_failure` | No | String | A list of strings which specify the tags to be set in the event when the processors fails or unknown exception occurs while parsing. 

## Usage

The following examples show how to use `parse_ion` processor in your pipeline.

### Example: Minimum configuration

The following example shows the minimum configuration for the `parse_ion` processor:

```yaml
parse-json-pipeline:
  source:
    stdin:
  processor:
    - parse_json:

>         pointer: "outer_key/inner_key"

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should show an example using `source` instead of `pointer` as it is simpler.

```suggestion
        source: "my_ion"
```

  sink:
    - stdout:
```
{% include copy.html %}

When the input event contains the following data:

```

> {"outer_key": {"inner_key": "inner_value"}}

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure that this example is quite correct. The final string should be in Amazon Ion format. Using the simplified example above:

```suggestion
{"my_ion": "{ion_value1: \"hello\", ion_value2: \"world\"}"}
```

```

The processor will parse the event into the following output:

```

> {"message": {"outer_key": {"inner_key": "inner_value"}}", "outer_key":{"inner_key":"inner_value"}}

Reviewer 3: Going with the changes suggested above:

```suggestion
{"ion_value1": "hello", "ion_value2" : "world"}
```

```

> ### Example: Using a JSON pointer

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure this example is correct. Maybe we can remove it for now?

Author: Let's remove it

Reviewer 3: @Naarcha-AWS , OK, please remove this, and then this PR will look good to me.

Author: @dlvenable: Already removed.
